# 🍀 Elephant Detection and repel system Development

There are various actions being taken day by day on behalf of the society which is suffering due to human-elephant conflict. Various technologies were also used for this purpose. To develop an efficient and low-cost IoT-based Elephant Detection and Repel System for managing elephant-human conflicts, several hardware components were utilized. These components played crucial roles in detecting elephants, issuing alerts, and implementing repelling measures. Here is of the key hardware and software used;

* **Arduino Uno Board -**Arduino UNO is a microcontroller board based on the ATmega328P. It contains 6 analogue inputs, a 16 MHz ceramic resonator, 14 digital input/output pins (six of which can be used as PWM outputs), a USB port, a power jack, an ICSP header, and a reset button. It comes with everything needed to support the microcontroller; to get started, just plug in a USB cable, an AC-to-DC adapter, or a battery.
* **ESP32 CAM Module -** ESP32-CAM is the latest small size camera module released by Essence. The module can work independently as the smallest system, with a size of only 27_40.5_4.5mm, and a deep sleep current as low as 6mA. ESP32-CAM can be widely used in various IoT applications, suitable for home smart devices, industrial wireless control, wireless monitoring, QR wireless identification, wireless positioning system signals and other IoT applications. It is an ideal solution for IoT applications.ESP32-CAM adopts DIP package and can be used directly by plugging in the bottom plate, realizing the rapid production of products, providing customers with high-reliability connection methods, which is convenient for application in various IoT hardware terminal occasions
* **3V Speaker -**A 3V speaker refers to a speaker that operates at a voltage of 3 volts. A speaker is an electroacoustic transducer that converts electrical signals into sound waves. It produces audio output by vibrating a diaphragm or cone, which creates pressure waves in the air and generates sound.
* **BD 139 Resistor-**BD139 is a NPN transistor hence the collector and emitter will be left open (Reverse biased) when the base pin is held at ground and will be closed (Forward biased) when a signal is provided to base pin.BD139 has a gain value of 40 to 160, this value determines the amplification capacity of the transistor. The maximum amount of current that could flow through the Collector pin is 1.5A, hence we cannot connect loads that consume more than 1.5A using this transistor. To bias a transistor we have to supply current to base pin, this current (IB) should be limited to 1/10th of the collector current and voltage across the base emitter pin should be 5V maximum.
* **Buzzer -**A buzzer or beeper is an audio signaling device commonly used in computers, printers, copiers, alarms, electronic toys, automotive electronics, telephones, timers, and other electronics. It is a simple audio signaling device that produces sound when an electrical current is applied to it. It consists of a small electromechanical component that converts electrical energy into sound waves.
* **SIM 900A GSM Module-** SIM900A GSM Module is the smallest and cheapest module for GPRS/GSM communication. It is common with Arduino and microcontroller in most of embedded application. The module offers GPRS/GSM technology for communication with the uses of a mobile sim. It uses a 900 and 1800MHz frequency band and allows users to receive/send mobile calls and SMS. The keypad and display interface allows the developers to make the customize application with it. Furthermore, it also has modes, command mode and data mode. In every country the GPRS/GSM and different protocols/frequencies to operate. Command mode helps the developers to change the default setting according to their requirements.
* **Roboflow-** Roboflow is a computer vision platform that allows users to build computer vision models faster and more accurately through the provision of better data collection, preprocessing, and model training techniques. Roboflow allows users to upload custom datasets, draw annotations, modify image orientations, resize images, modify image contrast and perform data augmentation. It can also be used to train models. Roboflow also has a universal annotation conversion tool that allows users to upload and convert annotations from one format to another without having to write conversion scripts for custom object detection datasets.
* **YOLO -** The "You Only Look Once" (YOLO) algorithm was successful in recognizing objects in images/ videos in real-time.This success made the annotation format popular and as new variants of the algorithm were developed, their respective YOLO annotation formats also gained popularity. They are YOLO Darknet, YOLOv5 PyTorch,Scaled-YOLOv4,YOLO Keras,YOLOv4 PyTorch.
* **Audacity -**Audacity is a popular and free, open-source audio editing and recording software. It is available for Windows, macOS, and Linux operating systems and offers a wide range of features for manipulating and enhancing audio files. Audacity is widely used by musicians, podcasters, sound designers, and audio enthusiasts.
