# 🍀 Design of Wild Animal Detection and Rescue System with Passive Infrared and Ultrasonic Sensor based

The aim of this study is to develop and construct a wild animal pest deterrent using a passive infrared (PIR) sensor and an ultrasonic signal, with a microcontroller acting as the system controller. Ultrasonic pulses are utilized to disrupt the hearing of the habitats and resources that elephants use, and the PIR sensor is used to identify the presence of wild animal objects. The system's architecture is based on a microcontroller acting as the system controller. The hardware and software together make up the system. While the software in the system comprises of algorithms programmed in the C programming language, the hardware design consists of system designs for the transmitter side and the receiver side. The resulting repellant device can detect animals approaching up to a distance of 5 m and may disrupt its hearing up to a distance of 20 m using a 40 kHz ultrasonic frequency. The system also makes use of remote monitoring tools that can be located up to 60 meters away using radio frequency at 433 MHz.

The goal of this project is to develop a device for repelling wild animals using a passive infrared (PIR) sensor and an ultrasonic signal, with a microcontroller acting as the system controller. The technology emits ultrasonic waves in accordance with the hearing frequency range of wild animals. Animals in the wild may experience hearing interference as a result of the frequency that is released. PIR sensors will identify any wild animal-related objects, after which an ultrasonic device will release a wave with a hearing-loss frequency. The monitoring station with the telemetry indicator display will also receive the system's transmission of the animal zone data.

