# 🐘 Elephant species range and ecology

Elephants are the largest terrestrial mammals, with the African elephant being the largest species. Among Asian elephants, the Sri Lankan subspecies is the largest and darkest in color. They belong to the order Proboscidea and the family Elephantidae. Elephants are social animals that live in tight matriarchal groups known as herds or clans. The herd is led by the oldest and largest female, called the matriarch. A Sri Lankan elephant herd typically consists of 12 to 20 or more individuals, including juveniles, nursing elephants, lactating females, and other adults.

Sri Lankan elephants can reach lengths of 6.4 meters and heights at the shoulder of 2- 3.5 meters. They weigh between 3,000 and 5,000 kilograms. They have small ears that do not cover the shoulders and two humps on their forehead. The trunk has one lobe at the tip, the front feet have five toes, and the back feet have four. Only male elephants have tusks, with the heaviest recorded tusk weighing 39 kilograms.

Elephants sleep for about four hours per day, with approximately two hours spent standing. They can run at speeds of up to 40 kilometers per hour and walk at speeds of up to 6.4 kilometers per hour. They are excellent swimmers and have been observed swimming long distances, including across harbors and reservoirs. Instances of elephants swimming in the ocean have also been reported, with one elephant being rescued by the Sri Lankan navy about 16 kilometers off the northeast coast in 2017.

Asian elephant species have one of the most extended gestation periods in the animal kingdom, lasting 18–20 months. Sri Lankan elephants‘ gestation can extend up to 680 days, and they typically give birth to a single calf, which exits the womb weighing 90.7 to 136.1 kg. Female elephants reach sexual maturity at ten years old and give birth once every four to six years. When a calf is born, it is raised and protected by the whole matriarchal herd. Elephants are an oddity among mammals because they grow until they die, usually around the age of 60.
