# 🍀 IoT-Enabled Smart Elephant Detection System for Combating Human Elephant Conflict

The smart elephant detection system's architecture is depicted in Figure 1 using IoT technology. The microprocessor, local storage, communication module, sensor panels, and power controller are some of the design's crucial elements. The sensor panel is a versatile setup that can accommodate any kind of sensor, regardless of the way it senses the world or how it is made. A geophone is employed as a low frequency subterranean (Seismic) sensor for ground waves in the suggested experimental detection system.

electricity from the grid, which is also used to energize the fence, as well as electricity from backup sources like the battery pack and the solar panel can be integrated by the power controller utilized in the design. The power controller down converts and controls the power to supply the IoT board with the steady voltage it needs. The supply will switch to one of the backup sources in the event of a power outage. A rechargeable 12v Li-Ion battery pack has been employed as a backup power source in the prototype implementation. Depending on the availability, it is charged either by grid power or solar power. Even in the event of a power outage, this configuration would keep the system operational.

The local storage is made up of volatile SRAM and nonvolatile Flash memory chips in semiconductor memory. The program code and any persistent information (alerts) that must be broadcast to the general public are stored in the Flash memory. Throughout the process, SRAM stores the temporary data. When there is an emergency, the communication module will establish a data link with the mobile communication network and transmit the alerts to the public alerting system and the authorities. To monitor and control the condition of the fence itself, the same module communicates with other identical units attached at different points of the fence. depict the prototype elephant detecting device that was deployed outside the lab for testing.

