# 🍀 Smart Elephant Monitoring and Tracking System

This proposal would concentrate on an IoT-based monitoring technique that is nonintrusive and safe for both people and elephants. To accomplish the stated goal, a system is suggested that will allow for the early warning of villages and the detection, monitoring, and identification of elephant attacks utilizing seismic data connected to elephants and GPS data. The data were collected using gear that consists of geophones, amplification and filtering circuits, and GSM data connection modules. the geophones were placed in the system's initial physical configuration to cover an area where elephant activity was known to occur in the woodlands. All of the seismic data was collected by geophones, which then transmitted it to the IoT sensor network. For the initial prototype implementation, the sensor network used mobile data to send the data into the database. A GSM SIM800l module was used in this experiment. REST APIs were used to save the data in a cloud database.

The neural network then used this information to find elephants. The profiling component used an artificial neural network (ANN) to profile the behavior of the approaching elephants after determining whether the signal was coming from an elephant in order to foretell the threat.

This strategy was adopted after taking into account environmental elements such the setup's location, the accessibility of a communication medium in remote places, the effectiveness of data communication, and the amount of time needed to discover elephants, predict their behavior, and adequately warn the villagers. In addition to the real-time elephant tracking, the previously collected GPS data were also used to simulate elephant‘s behavior. The reason to use two approaches to warn elephant attacks was to ensure that the results were more accurate and reliable as illustrated.

